.\" mr.man version 1.0
.\" copyright 1991 Ronald Florence
.TH MR LOCAL "7 Feb 1992"
.SH NAME
mr \- mail (or news) reader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mr
[
.I spool 
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mr is a simple reader for mail and/or news spools.  It won't obsolete
elm, mailtool, emacs, mush, or even /usr/ucb/Mail, but it allows a
reader to page, reply-to, save, append, print, forward, pipe,
originate, conceal or reveal headers, and delete or undelete mail.  Mr
can also be used to read the news spools produced by the bsnews news
system for leaf nodes.
.SH COMMANDS
An alternate mail or news spool can be named on the command line.  The
initial display lists waiting messages:
.ta .5i 1i 3.5i
.sp
.nf
.if t .ft CR
1	FOP	[ 22:ron@mlfarm.com (R]	How to use mr
.ie t .ft CB
.el .ft B
2	DOR	[985:goer@sophist.uchi]	Improving MR (part I)
.ie t .ft CR
.el .ft R
3	N	[ 61:ralph@cs.arizona.]	MS-Dos Pipes
.ft R
.fi
.P
The letters after the message number indicate the status of the
message; New, Old, Replied-to, Printed, Deleted, Saved, Forwarded.
The number inside the square brackets is the number of lines in the
message, followed by the author's name and/or email address, and the
subject.  The current message is highlighted in bold or reverse video,
depending on the capabilities of the display.  The prompt shows the
current message number and the total number of messages.  The
following commands can be given:
.sp
.nf
.RS
A	Append current message to a file
D	Delete current message
F	Forward current message
G	Get new mail
H	Help
L	List headers
M	Mail to a new recipient
N	Next message
P	Print current message
Q	Quit, saving changes
R	Reply-to current message
S	Save current message to a file
U	Undelete current message
V	View all headers
X	eXit without saving changes
|	pipe current message to a command
!	execute command
#	make # current message
+	next message
-	previous message
?	help
.RE
.fi
.P
Pressing 
.RI < return > 
will page thru the current message, then advance the current message
number.  Press
.I Q 
or 
.I N
at a 
.SM MORE
prompt to return to the command prompt.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The 
.SM EDITOR
and 
.SM MAILSPOOL
environmental variables can be used to override default settings.  Mr
uses the
.SM TERM
and
.SM TERMCAP
variables to lookup screen parameters and control strings.
.SH SEE ALSO
mail(1), sendmail(1), bsnews(\s-1LOCAL\s0)
.SH BUGS
The pseudo-pipes used for ms-dos cannot handle a complex command.
Some users would undoubtedly prefer getch() style command parsing.
The pager used to display messages does not back-up.
.SH AUTHOR
Ronald Florence (ron\s-2@\s0mlfarm.com).  
