.\" post.man version 1.5
.TH POST LOCAL "2 Oct 1991"
.SH NAME
post \- news poster
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B post
[
.BI \-n\  newsgroups
] [
.BI \-s\  subject
] [
.BI \-d\  distribution
] [
.BI \-f\  followup-to
] [
.BI \-p\  quote-prefix
] [
.B \- 
|
.I news-article
] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Post 
posts a news article to Usenet via inews, uux, or mail.  Given an
optional argument of the name of a file containing a news article, or
an argument of `\-' and a news article via stdin,
.I post
creates a follow-up article, with an attribution and quoted text.
.I Post
can be invoked as a filter from a newsreader:
.RB ` "|post \-" '
would create a followup article to the current article in the
newsreader.  The newsgroups, subject, distribution, follow-up, and
quote-prefix (the default is ` > ') can be specified on the command
line.
.PP
.I Post
is compatible with C-News, B-news, and bsnews (Bootstrap News).  On
systems with inews, the newsgroups and distribution are validated in
the appropriate news system files.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The environment variable
.SM EDITOR 
overrides the default editor.
.SM ORGANIZATION
overrides the file /usr/lib/news/organization to specify an optional
Organization header.  On non-Unix\u\s-3TM\s0\d systems, the
environment variable
.SM HOST
may be used to override the Icon keyword
.I &host
as the sitename.
.SH BUGS
The code to validate newsgroups assumes the file
/usr/lib/news/active
is sorted.
.SH AUTHOR
Ronald Florence (ron\s-2@\s0mlfarm.com).  The code to generate a
temporary file name is from Richard Goerwitz
(goer\s-2@\s0sophist.uchicago.edu).  Options.icn is from the Icon
Program Library.
