.TH ICONT 1 "9 August 2005" "University of Arizona"
.SH NAME
icont \- translate Icon program
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBicont\fP [ option ... ] file ... [ \fB\-x\fP arg ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Icont translates and links programs written in the Icon language.
Translation produces \fIucode\fP files, suffixed \fB.u1\fP and \fB.u2\fP,
which are linked to produce executable files.
Icon executables are shell scripts containing binary data; this data is
interpreted by \fBiconx\fP, which must be present at execution time.
.PP
File names ending in \fB.icn\fP are Icon source files;
the \fB.icn\fP suffix may be omitted from command arguments.
An argument of \fB\-\fP reads from standard input.
A name ending in \fB.u\fP, \fB.u1\fP, or \fB.u2\fP selects both files
of a ucode pair.
The specified files are combined to produce a single program,
which is named by removing the suffix from the first input file.
.PP
An argument of \fB\-x\fP may appear \fIafter\fP the file arguments
to execute the linked program.
Any subsequent arguments are passed to the program.
.PP
Ucode files produced by translation are normally deleted after linking.
If the \fB\-c\fP option is given, processing stops after translation
and the ucode files are left behind.
A directory of such files functions as a linkable library.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by \fIicont\fP:
.TP 4
\fB\-c\fP
Stop after producing ucode files.
.TP
\fB\-f s\fP
Enable full string invocation by preserving unreferenced procedures
during linking.
.TP
\fB\-o \fIfile\fP
Write the executable program to the specified file.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
Suppress informative messages during translation and linking.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP
Activate runtime tracing by
arranging for \fB&trace\fP to have an initial value of \-1
upon execution.
.TP
\fB\-u\fP
Diagnose undeclared identifiers.
.TP
\fB\-v \fIi\fP
Set verbosity level of informative messages to \fIi\fB.
.TP
\fB\-E\fP
Direct the results of preprocessing to standard output and inhibit
further processing.
.TP
\fB\-N\fP
Don't embed \fBiconx\fP path in executable file.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP
Announce version and configuration information on standard error.
.SH "TRANSLATION ENVIRONMENT"
Two environment variables control file search paths during
translation and linking.
These variables contain blank- or colon-separated lists of directories
to be searched after the current directory
and before the standard library.
.TP 4
\fBIPATH\fP
Directories to search for for ucode files
specified in \fBlink\fP directives and on the command line.
.TP 4
\fBLPATH\fP
Directories to search for source files
specified in preprocessor \fB$include\fP directives.
.SH "EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT"
Several environment variables control the execution of an Icon program.
Values in parentheses are the default values.
.TP 4
\fBBLKSIZE\fP (500000)
The initial size, in bytes, of the allocated block region.
.TP
\fBCOEXPSIZE\fP (2000)
The size, in words, of each co-expression stack.
.TP
\fBICONCORE\fP
If set, a core dump is produced for error termination.
.TP 4
\fBICONX\fP
The location of \fBiconx\fP, the icon interpreter,
overriding the value built into the executable by \fBicont\fP.
Not required if the configuration is unchanged since build time
or if \fBiconx\fP is in the same directory as the executable.
.TP
\fBMSTKSIZE\fP (10000)
The size, in words, of the main interpreter stack for \fBicont\fP.
.TP
\fBNOERRBUF\fP
By default, \fB&errout\fP is buffered.  If this variable is set, \fB&errout\fP
is not buffered.
.TP
\fBQLSIZE\fP (5000)
The size, in bytes, of the region used for pointers
to strings during garbage collection.
.TP
\fBSTRSIZE\fP (500000)
The initial size, in bytes, of the string space.
.TP
\fBTRACE\fP
The initial value of \fB&trace\fP.
If this variable has a value, it overrides the translation-time
\fB\-t\fP
option.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBicon\fP(1), a simpler command interface
for embedding Icon programs in scripts.
.LP
\fIThe Icon Programming Language\fP.
Griswold and Griswold,
Peer-to-Peer, third edition, 1996.
.LP
\fIGraphics Programming in Icon\fP.
Griswold, Jeffery, and Townsend,
Peer-to-Peer, 1998.
.LP
\fIVersion 9.4.3 of Icon\fP.
.br
http://www.cs.arizona.edu/icon/v943.
.SH "CAVEATS"
.LP
Icon executables are not self-sufficient, but require the \fBiconx\fP
interpreter.
When distributing an Icon program in executable form, include a copy
of \fBiconx\fP in the same directory.

