.\"Copyright 1990-92 GROUPE BULL -- See license conditions in file COPYRIGHT
.TH SXPM 1
.PD
.ad b
.SH NAME
sxpm \- Show an XPM (X PixMap) file and/or convert XPM2 files to XPM version 3.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsxpm\fR
[\|\fB-d\fR displayname\|] 
[\|\fB-g\fR geometry\|] 
[\|\fB-hints\fR\|] 
[\|\fB-icon\fR filename\|] 
[\|\fB-s\fR symbol color_name\|] 
[\|\fB-p\fR symbol pixel_value\|] 
[\|\fB-plaid\| | \|\fRfilename\| | \|-\|]
[\|\fB-o\fR filename\| | \|\fB-o\fR -\|] 
[\|\fB-nod\fR\|] 
[\|\fB-rgb\fR filename\|] 
[\|\fB-c\fR\|] 
[\|\fB-v\fR\|] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIsxpm\fP program can be used to view any XPM (version 2 or 3) file and/or
to convert a file from XPM2 to XPM version 3. If \fIsxpm\fP is run without any
option specified, the usage is displayed. If no geometry is specified, the
show window will have the size of the read pixmap. Pressing the key Q in the
window will quit the program.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-d \fIdisplay\fP
Specifies the display to connect to.
.TP 8
.B \-g \fIgeom\fP
Window geometry (default is pixmap's size).
.TP 8
.B \-hints
Set ResizeInc for window.
.TP 8
.B \-icon \fIfilename\fP
Set icon to pixmap created from the file \fIfilename\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-s \fIsymbol colorname\fP
Overwrite default color to \fIsymbol\fP to \fIcolorname\fp.
.TP 8
.B \-p \fIsymbol pixelvalue\fP
Overwrite default color to \fIsymbol\fP to \fIpixelvalue\fp.
.TP 8
.B \-closecolors
Try to use "close colors" before reverting to other visuals.
.TP 8
.B \-plaid
Show the plaid pixmap which is stored as data\fP.
.TP 8
.B \fIfilename\fP
Read from the file \fIfilename\fP and from standard input if \fIfilename\fP is '-'.
If no input is specified sxpm reads from standard input.
.TP 8
.B \-o \fIfilename\fP
Write to the file \fIfilename\fP (overwrite if it already exists) and to
standard output if \fIfilename\fP is '-'.
.TP 8
.B \-nod
Do not display the pixmap in a window.  (Useful when using as converter)
.TP 8
.B \-rgb \fIfilename\fP
Search color names in the file \fIfilename\fP and write them out instead of
the rgb values.
.TP 8
.B \-c
To use a private colormap.
.TP 8
.B \-v
Verbose - to print out extensions (stderr).


.SH KNOWN BUGS
When converting a file from XPM2 to XPM version 3, if several pixels (symbols)
get the same color only one will be in the file written out.
.br
Some window managers may not accept a pixmap which is not a bitmap as icon
because this does not respect ICCCM, many of the well known ones will accept
it though.

.SH AUTHOR
Arnaud Le Hors    (lehors@sophia.inria.fr)
.br
Bull Research France
.br
Copyright (C) 1990-92,92 by Groupe Bull.
